# CSS FRAMEWORK

## HELPERS

### Colors and backgrounds

Colors and backgrounds are determined by the $colorList variable map in _variables.scss. Whatever the given name to the color variable will determine the class for background and color.

ie. Variable name: dark will become class .has-bg-dark for background and .has-c-dark for text color.

You can also change the color of a scrollbar thumb by using class .scroll-thumb-dark

### Borders

##### Placement
First initial class needed for a border, to tell the border where it's going to be. 

.has-bd-full, .has-bd-vert, .has-bd-hori, .has-bd-left, .has-bd-top, .has-bd-right, .has-bd-bottom

##### Color
The class to define the bd color would be added ontop of the placement border class. These colors will be populated by the color variables in the variable file.

.bd-black, .bd-shade-1 

##### Thickness
The thickness default is one pixel, and classes can be added ontop to define the border thickness. These will again be populated by the variables in the variable file.

$borderSizes: light 1px, normal 2px, bold 4px, extra-bold 7px;

.bd-light, .bd-normal, .bd-bold
 
##### Full Example

```<button class="has-bd-full bd-white bd-light"></button>```

### Widths and heights

Widths and heights are percentage based and are plural. 

ie. .is-one-third and .is-two-thirds or .is-one-third-tall and .is-two-thirds-tall

### Spacing

Spacing sizes are based on $spacingSizeList variable map. The name of each size will determine the name of the class for padding, margin and negative margin.

$spacingSizeList: (light: 3px, extra-small: 6px, small: 7px, normal: 9px, normal-large: 12px, medium: 15px, medium-lg: 20px, large: 24px, extra-large: 35px, largest: 60px, none: 0);

Example classes are .has-mg-light, .has-pd-light and .has-neg-mg-light.

### Positioning

There are the classes to change the position of an element: .is-absolute, .is-fixed and .is-relative

You can position left, top, right and bottom of these with percentages using classes. These classes are fraction based.

ie. .left-none, .left-one-half, .top-one-whole, .right-two-fifths

If you want to center position vertically and horizontal, you would do something like this.

```<div class="is-absolute left-one-half top-one-half transform-to-center"></div>```

### Grid

Grid is made through flexbox and supports back to 2009 old standard. Apply .layout-row or '.layout-column'. As well ass the child container being '.layout-item'.

#### Justify and align

You can declare the align-items and justify-content of the row or column by applying layout--<justify>-<align>. ie. layout--space-between-center.

```
<div class="layout-row layout--space-between-center">
  <div class="layout-item is-one-half"></div>
  <div class="layout-item is-one-half"></div>
<div>
```

#### Grid Margins

Grid margins will be declared on row or column by a margin helper. The margin helper uses class '.with-mg-<size>'. This will apply a negative margin on the parent and horizontal margins on child for row and vertical margins on child for column. 

The space between the items will be the amount that is applied. ie. if applied .with-mg-small, since the size for small is 7px, the space between the items will be 7 pixels, applying 3.5px to each side of the items.

For example...
```
<div class="layout-row with-mg-small">
  <div class="layout-item is-one-quarter"></div>
  <div class="layout-item is-one-quarter"></div>
  <div class="layout-item is-one-quarter"></div>
  <div class="layout-item is-one-quarter"></div>
</div>
```

### Scroll Containers

.is-scrollable-y, .is-scrollable-x, .is-not-scrollable

## Components

### Tooltip arrow

##### Positioning

The class to position them .arrow_box-left, .arrow_box-right, .arrow_box-top, .arrow_box-bottom. The arrow will by default be centered on these sides.

##### Background Color

Classes will be automatically generated by the color variables in the variable file.

.arrow-bg-black, .arrow-bg-white

##### Border Color

If you want a border to be added to the tooltip arrow, the colors will be automatically generated.

.arrow-bd-black, .arrow-bd-white

##### Size

To change the size of the arrow, use the classes that automatically are generated for sizes.

Available sizes: 14, 16

.arrow-16px

##### Full Example

```<button class="arrow_box-left arrow-bg-black arrow-bd-white arrow-16px"></button>```

